
// ROUTES: routes are the definitions of the endpoints (URIs:Uniform Resource Identifier is a system for identifying resources such as webpage,image etc). They determine how the server should respond to client requests for specific URL's.

// while URL(Uniform Resource Locator) is a type of URI that specifies a resources location

//API Endpoints: it is a specific URL where requests are sent to interact with the API

just like a webpage is rendered,API's can use HTTP requests to get information from the web application or the web server.

API's are typically REST or SOAP and both are used to access web services. 
    1.SOAP relies solely on XML to provide messaging services

    2.REST offers more lightweight method using URLs in most cases to send or recieve information.
    4 types of different HTTP in REST: {GET,POST,DELETE,PUT} to perform tasks.

    REST-bases web services output data in Command seperated values(CSV), JSON(javascroipt object notation),RSS (really simple syndication).

    Can obtain output in a form that is easy to parse withing the language u need for ur application.


API ENDPOINT: an endpoint is one end of communication channel.
When an API interacts with another system,the touchpoints of this communication are considered as touchpoints.
Each endpoint is the location from which API's can access the resources they need to carry out their function.

API's work using 'requests' and 'responses'. When an api requests information from a web appl. or web server,it will recieve a response. The place that API's send requests and where resources lives,is called an endpoint.

// a ROUTE typically includes:
1. Path: URL pattern to match
2. HTTP Method: type of request (GET,POST,PUT,DELETE)
2. Handler Fucnction: The function that gets executed when the route is matched

routes map incoming requests to specific controller functions. a route is a URL pattern that triggers a specific function when a request matches it.
This function,often called a route handler, processed the incoming routes and sends an appropriate response.